---
layout: post
title: "COMPOSITION #1"
author: "Luca Tornato"
categories: documentation
tags: [opening page]
image: img_comp1.jpg
---

### Art installation <br> Projection Mapping, algorithmic art <br> projector + microcontroller + CRT TV

<br>
<br>

COMPOSITION #01 is an installation art piece and a study on how I could organize different materials I had in hand, such as a few electronic equipments and the valuable space I was about to loose. It is also the first third of the 3106 (copan) series, which explores loss, spontaneity and the complete symbiosis with its site.

Putting it altogether and adding to the shortage of time (I let machines take a big part on the creative process, feeding them with electromagnetic disturbances to drive the Screen and the Stripe) and the use of basic geometric shapes which resembles those of Abstractionists, the project took layers and depth.

The installation has an intrinsic ephemeral characteristic; it could only exist within its original space: the apartment at the 31st floor.


For this art piece, I used materials I had in hand: a projector, an old tv, and my apartment’s window. Since I had only a few days left at the location, the idea was to improvise as quick as possible a whole new artwork. During the process, home furniture proved to be very efficient as an improvised support; bed, tables, curtains and electronics had to be removed and my daily routine was altered since I was using most part of my home as a stage for the installation. What surprised me is that the city landscape from São Paulo at the 31st floor was a huge part of the composition, adding density to the installation. 

The artpiece consists of three parts.

The Strip, which I soldered with red LEDs in less than an hour and had an Arduino randomly flash it;

The Frame, a mapped projection into my apartment’s window, using Processing to generate the visuals and

The Screen, a crt tv showing some composite video visuals generated by a custom Arduino controller.

